# Identification, quantification and analysis of observable anthropogenic debris along swiss river and lakes (IQAASL)

IQAASL is a project sponsored by the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment to quantify shoreline trash along swiss lakes and rivers. Multiple small scale litter surveys are completed at different locations within a designated survey area. For the year 2020/2021 the survey areas were defined by the municipalities that border the Aare, Rhône, Ticino and Linth/Limmat rivers and any lakes or rivers that are within the catchment area.

The REST API for the new application is in development here [IQALS](https://github.com/hammerdirt-analyst/iqals)

## Purpose

This repository maintains all beach-litter-survey data collected using the MSFD/OSPAR protcol in Switzerland since November 2015, with the exception of data generated by *Surfrider Europe* 
and *Sol a Tous*.

### Survey data

There are two forms of the data: Aggregated and un-aggregated. The un-aggregated data includes unique codes for objects not specifically mentioned in the MSFD or OSPAR guides but found with regularity in Switzerland. Each unique code is linked to an official MSFD or OSPAR code by the 'Parent code' field. Thus, when the un-aggregated data is aggregated the data set only includes the codes used in MSFD or OSPAR.



The survey data is in long form. There are 1439 surveys, each survey has 224 observations. Codes or objects that were not identified on a survey are added to the survey with a quantity of zero. Each observation includes:

1. the object code
2. name and population of the surrounding municipality
3. land use rates within a 1500m buffer of the sample location
4. quantity and number of objects per meter (zero if it was not found)
5. name of the water feature and catchment area of survey location

### Location data

The location data contains all the location data in the survey results plus:

1. The un-aggregated land use rates
2. latitude, longitude

### Code/object data

The code data contains the descriptions, material type, OSPAR id and groupnames of all the codes used to describe the objects found.

#### more information

analyst@hammerdirt.ch
> :heart: what you do 
